.TH  FESTIVAL 1 "1st Aug 1997"
.SH NAME
festival_client \- client access to festiva; text-to-speech server mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B festival_client
.I [options]
.I [file0]
.I [file1]
.I ...


.SH DESCRIPTION
Allows sending commands and/or test to a festival test-to-speech
server.  Festival may be started in server mode using the
option 
.BI --server

festival-clinet allows waveforms ot be generated faster as not
time is required for start up.  See the festival manual for
more details on recommended use.

.SH OPTIONS


.TP 8
.BI "--server " <string>
hostname (or IP number) of server 
.TP 8
.BI "--port " <int> " {1314}"
port number of server process (1314) 
.TP 8
.BI "--output " <string>
file to save output waveform to 
.TP 8
.BI "--otype " <string> " {riff}"
output type for waveform 
.TP 8
.BI "--passwd " <string>
server passwd in plain text (optional) 
.TP 8
.BI "--prolog " <string>
filename containing commands to be sent 
to the server before standard commands 
(useful when using --ttw) 
.TP 8
.BI "--async " 
Asynchronous mode, server may send back 
multiple waveforms per text file 
.TP 8
.BI "--ttw " 
Text to waveform: take text from first 
arg or stdin get server to return 
waveform(s) stored in output or operated 
on by aucommand. 
.TP 8
.BI "--withlisp " 
Output lisp replies from server. 
.TP 8
.BI "--tts_mode " <string>
TTS mode for file (default is fundamental). 
.TP 8
.BI "--aucommand " <string>
command to be applied to each 
waveform retruned from server. Use $FILE 
in string to refer to waveform file 
.SH BUGS
This still isn't as general as it should be.  It seems to
require lots of special little options which suggests the
general options aren't right.

.SH AUTHOR
Alan W Black and Paul Taylor
.br
(C) Centre for Speech Technology Research
.br
University of Edinburgh
.br
80 South Bridge
.br
Edinburgh EH1 1HN
.br
http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival.html
